README.md, before:

# 🧠 Personal Knowledge Brain (PKB)

A user-scoped Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) assistant that answers questions grounded in a user’s own documents, with persistent memory and clean modular design.

---

## 📌 Project Overview

Personal Knowledge Brain (PKB) is an AI assistant that allows users to:

- Add their own documents
- Ask questions grounded strictly in those documents
- Maintain conversational memory across sessions
- Keep each user’s data fully isolated

Unlike generic chatbots, PKB is designed as a **personal knowledge system**, not a stateless Q&A tool.

---

## ✨ Key Features

- 🔍 Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
- 📚 Document ingestion and chunking
- 🧠 Semantic search using embeddings
- 💾 Persistent vector database (ChromaDB)
- 🗂️ Persistent conversation memory (SQLite)
- 👤 User-scoped isolation (multi-tenant ready)
- ⚙️ Modular and extensible architecture

---

## 🧱 Architecture Overview
```bash
User
└── Query
├── Conversation Memory (SQLite)
├── Knowledge Retrieval (ChromaDB)
└── LLM (Groq)
```

Each user has an isolated data directory:

```bash
data/users/<user_id>/
├── chat.db # conversation memory
├── documents/ # user-provided documents
└── vector_db/ # vector embeddings (ChromaDB)   
```


---

## 🔁 RAG Pipeline

1. **Document Loading**
   - User places `.txt` or `.md` files in their documents folder

2. **Chunking**
   - Documents are split into overlapping chunks

3. **Embedding**
   - Sentence Transformers (`all-MiniLM-L6-v2`)

4. **Vector Storage**
   - Persistent ChromaDB collection (per user)

5. **Retrieval**
   - Semantic similarity search (top-k chunks)

6. **Answer Generation**
   - Retrieved context + user query → LLM (Groq)

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Python 3
- ChromaDB
- Sentence Transformers
- Groq LLM API
- SQLite

---

## 📂 Project Structure

``` bash

project/
├── app/
│ ├── auth.py # user isolation
│ ├── memory.py # SQLite conversation memory
│ ├── rag.py # ingestion and retrieval
│ ├── chat.py # conversational RAG logic
│ └── knowledge.py # explicit knowledge updates
├── data/
│ └── users/
├── test_chat.py
├── test_vector_store.py
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md

```


---

## 🚀 How to Run

### 1️⃣ Setup environment

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### 2️⃣ Environment variables

Create a .env file:

```bash
GROQ_API_KEY=your_api_key_here

```

### 3️⃣ Add documents

Place .txt or .md files inside:

```bash
data/users/<your_username>/documents/

```

### 4️⃣ Ingest documents

```bash
python test_vector_store.py
```

### 5️⃣ Ask questions

``` bash
python test_chat.py
```

---

### 🧠 Knowledge vs Conversation Memory

* Conversation memory

    * Stored automatically in SQLite

    * Used for conversational continuity

* Knowledge base

    * Updated explicitly via user action

    * Prevents accidental or noisy ingestion

This separation ensures accuracy and explainability.

--- 

### ⚠️ Limitations

* Manual document ingestion step

* Limited document formats (text/markdown)

* Minimal interface (CLI-based)

### 🔮 Future Improvements

* Web-based chat interface

* Document upload via UI

* Memory summarization

* Knowledge editing and deletion

* Advanced retrieval strategies

---

✅ Why This Project Matters
This project demonstrates:

* Practical understanding of RAG

* Persistent memory handling

* User-scoped data isolation

* Clean system design

* Real-world AI assistant architecture

It goes beyond a basic chatbot into a foundational personal AI system.

Commit message:

Clarify assistant scope and query processing
Added sections detailing assistant scope and query processing.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Personal Knowledge Brain (PKB)

A user-scoped Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) assistant that answers questions grounded in a user’s own documents, with persistent memory and clean modular design.

---

## 📌 Project Overview

Personal Knowledge Brain (PKB) is an AI assistant that allows users to:

- Add their own documents
- Ask questions grounded strictly in those documents
- Maintain conversational memory across sessions
- Keep each user’s data fully isolated

Unlike generic chatbots, PKB is designed as a **personal knowledge system**, not a stateless Q&A tool.

---

## ✨ Key Features

- 🔍 Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
- 📚 Document ingestion and chunking
- 🧠 Semantic search using embeddings
- 💾 Persistent vector database (ChromaDB)
- 🗂️ Persistent conversation memory (SQLite)
- 👤 User-scoped isolation (multi-tenant ready)
- ⚙️ Modular and extensible architecture

---

## 🧱 Architecture Overview
```bash
User
└── Query
├── Conversation Memory (SQLite)
├── Knowledge Retrieval (ChromaDB)
└── LLM (Groq)
```

Each user has an isolated data directory:

```bash
data/users/<user_id>/
├── chat.db # conversation memory
├── documents/ # user-provided documents
└── vector_db/ # vector embeddings (ChromaDB)   
```


---

## 🔁 RAG Pipeline

1. **Document Loading**
   - User places `.txt` or `.md` files in their documents folder

2. **Chunking**
   - Documents are split into overlapping chunks

3. **Embedding**
   - Sentence Transformers (`all-MiniLM-L6-v2`)

4. **Vector Storage**
   - Persistent ChromaDB collection (per user)

5. **Retrieval**
   - Semantic similarity search (top-k chunks)

6. **Answer Generation**
   - Retrieved context + user query → LLM (Groq)

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Python 3
- ChromaDB
- Sentence Transformers
- Groq LLM API
- SQLite

---

## 📂 Project Structure

``` bash

project/
├── app/
│ ├── auth.py # user isolation
│ ├── memory.py # SQLite conversation memory
│ ├── rag.py # ingestion and retrieval
│ ├── chat.py # conversational RAG logic
│ └── knowledge.py # explicit knowledge updates
├── data/
│ └── users/
├── test_chat.py
├── test_vector_store.py
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md

```


---

## 🚀 How to Run

### 1️⃣ Setup environment

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### 2️⃣ Environment variables

Create a .env file:

```bash
GROQ_API_KEY=your_api_key_here

```

### 3️⃣ Add documents

Place .txt or .md files inside:

```bash
data/users/<your_username>/documents/

```

### 4️⃣ Ingest documents

```bash
python test_vector_store.py
```

### 5️⃣ Ask questions

``` bash
python test_chat.py
```

---

## Assistant Scope

The Personal Knowledge Brain is designed to:

- Answer questions grounded strictly in user-provided documents
- Maintain conversational continuity using persistent memory
- Support user-scoped knowledge isolation

The assistant is intentionally **not** designed to:

- Answer general world-knowledge questions
- Act as a web search engine
- Provide speculative or ungrounded responses
- Perform autonomous actions beyond retrieval and response generation

## Query Processing and Retrieval

User queries are processed through a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline:

1. The user query is received and combined with recent conversational context.
2. A semantic similarity search is performed against the user’s vector database.
3. The most relevant document chunks are selected based on embedding similarity.
4. Retrieved context is injected into the language model prompt.
5. The language model generates a grounded response using only the provided context.

This design ensures that responses remain explainable, relevant, and resistant to hallucination.


### 🧠 Knowledge vs Conversation Memory

* Conversation memory

    * Stored automatically in SQLite

    * Used for conversational continuity

* Knowledge base

    * Updated explicitly via user action

    * Prevents accidental or noisy ingestion

This separation ensures accuracy and explainability.

--- 

### ⚠️ Limitations

* Manual document ingestion step

* Limited document formats (text/markdown)

* Minimal interface (CLI-based)

### 🔮 Future Improvements

* Web-based chat interface

* Document upload via UI

* Memory summarization

* Knowledge editing and deletion

* Advanced retrieval strategies

---

✅ Why This Project Matters
This project demonstrates:

* Practical understanding of RAG

* Persistent memory handling

* User-scoped data isolation

* Clean system design

* Real-world AI assistant architecture

It goes beyond a basic chatbot into a foundational personal AI system.
